rustfmt evaluation report (#666)
ferrocene/ferrocene: ferrocene/doc/evaluation-report/src/rustfmt/tool-analysis.rst

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: The Ferrocene Developers

.. default-domain:: qualification

Tool Analysis
=============

Potential Errors
----------------

.. list-table::
   :align: left
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15, 15, 25, 20, 25

   * - Error identifier
     - Use case
     - Description
     - Risk
     - Mitigation
   * - .. id:: RUSTFMT_ERR_01
     - :id:`RUSTFMT_UC1_FMT`
     - rustfmt emits code with changed semantics
     - Undefined behavior, due to changed semantics
     - :id:`RUSTFMT_AVD_CHECK_DIFF_001`, :id:`RUSTFMT_AVD_TESTS_002`

.. end of table

Detection Measures and Usage Restriction
----------------------------------------

.. list-table::
   :align: left
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Measure identifier
     - Description
   * - .. id:: RUSTFMT_AVD_CHECK_DIFF_001

>      - The user must review the diff after running rustfmt and ensure no semantics changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The user must review the changes in the source code after running rustfmt and ensure no semantics changed.
```

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: The Ferrocene Developers

.. default-domain:: qualification

Tool Analysis
=============

Potential Errors
----------------

.. list-table::
   :align: left
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15, 15, 25, 20, 25

   * - Error identifier
     - Use case
     - Description
     - Risk
     - Mitigation
   * - .. id:: RUSTFMT_ERR_01
     - :id:`RUSTFMT_UC1_FMT`
     - rustfmt emits code with changed semantics

>      - Undefined behavior

Reviewer: The risk is not just UB, but also different semantic meaning of the code.

Author: In my head changing the semantics will produce undefined behaviour, isn't it? Because the behaviour will be different somehow, but we cannot define what it will do different.

What do you think about "Undefined behavior, due to changed semantics"?

Reviewer: I would not use the "undefined behavior" wording here, because it might be confused with the compiler's meaning of undefined behavior. I would probably have:

* "rustfmt emits code with a different semantic meaning than the input" as the description
* "Change in program semantics" as the risk.

>      - Undefined behavior

Author: ```suggestion
     - Change in program semantics
```

>      - :id:`RUSTC_AVD_CHECK_DIFF_001`, :id:`RUSTC_AVD_TESTS_002`

Reviewer: The mitigations should have `RUSTFMT_` IDs.

.. end of table

Detection Measures and Usage Restriction
----------------------------------------

.. list-table::
   :align: left
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Measure identifier
     - Description
   * - .. id:: RUSTC_AVD_CHECK_DIFF_001
     - The user must review the diff after running rustfmt and ensure no semantics changed.
   * - .. id:: RUSTC_AVD_TESTS_002
     - Sufficient tests which ensure the correctness of the program need to pass after running rustfmt.

.. end of table

> Potential Errors by Classes Traceability Matrix

Reviewer 2: we don't use this matrix, so maybe we should remove this section (or is it that this heading is actually unreadable)

-----------------------------------------------

Potential errors are the result of the HazOp analysis, it should be documented
in the HazOp Report documents.

Tool Evaluation Results
-----------------------

During this analysis, we highlighted some of the potential errors concerning
rustfmt that impacts the safety-related software code. Hence, the tool
impact is **TI2**.

Moreover, this analysis shows us that the likelihood of detecting these
potential errors is very high. Therefore, the tool error detection class is
**TD1**.

Using clause 11.4.5.4 in part 8 of the [|iso_ref|] standard, we can conclude that in
the worst case the Tool Classification Level is **TCL1**. Therefore we need no
qualification methods.

IEC 61508 Tool Classification
-----------------------------

rustfmt provides a tool to format Rust code to conform with automotive

> [|iso_ref|] TCL 3/ASIL D level and industrial [|iec_ref|] class T3.

Reviewer: It is TCL 1, not TCL 3.
